# Project 89

There are a few versions of the Project 89 instructions.

## Project 89 (2010)
[Project 89](https://www.scribd.com/document/33043343/89PDDWeb-1)  
Jun 15, 2010

## Project 89 - Basic Proposal
[Project 89 - Basic Proposal](https://www.scribd.com/document/59714576/Project-89-Basic-Proposal)  

## Project 89 (2012)
[Project 89 - 2012 Update](https://www.scribd.com/document/102605824/Project-89-May-2012-Update)  
Aug 11, 2012

---

## The Neurolinguistic Virus

The following contains a
Neurolinguistic Virus embedded in
its contents. Any perceptual,
cognitive or ontological effects
that may result with the reading of
what follows is not the
responsibility of the Project. All
artifacts generated by your
participation are an intrinsic part of
the experience. Proceed with
caution, and please, enjoy your
stay with us!


This imagination is the entire world as one living book, which is written in the language
of symbols. Those who read of this Liber M find themselves all in agreeance with one
another, though they never met. This book is the entire space of phenomenal
appearances; this world is as a mirror which we look into to see ourselves. What we see
reflected back are symbols. All around us. The sun. The moon. The sky. Fire. Water. Air.

All true Agents of iT pass unnoticed through the world, silently enacting iT's Will. They
are characters in the story that have realized they are also the writers. They know the
rules perfectly, as they move solely by the Light of Love. They have opened the eye of
their heart, and thus can they read the Book of the World. They recognize one another if
iT has need of them too. IT passes unseen in the world, behind the cover of the
apparently real.

This Logos has thus been growing steadily since the birth of the human. The
experimental author William Burroughs once, half-jokingly, said “language is a virus
from outer space.” It would seem to be a thing which is separate from us, but interacts
with us as some kind of symbiote. Our techne needs us as much as we need it.

When the age of the electric came upon us, something seems to have occurred. The
Logos, long lying dormant in the form of books and type, a linear and material thing,
came alive with the saturation of electricity. Marshall McLuhan likened this to the
difference between the frames of a film, seen one by one, and what occurs when that
same film has light shone through it and speeds up due to the electrical current. With this
speeding up come new patterns of perception.

The Logos began to break free from the limitations of material existence; it managed to
conquer space with the advent of the radio; it could encode into itself new types of
signals, such as audio, and eventually video. Individual’s creative imaginations could
serve the Logos to spur new info-worlds for human habitation.

Individuals would stumble upon various “rabbit holes”, which can be likened to a media
artifact which has a hook in it, something that snags the individuals attention and puts
them in to the “quest” of the story- which is to find out what is going on.

This “game” gave rise to a whole new genre of games. The goal of these games is not so
much to place someone into a “new” reality, but to slowly and subtly transform their
current reality into a new world. In a sense, this is exactly what the conspiracy culture
does unconsciously, as the human has a need to create ontological models of their reality
within which to situate themselves against the ultimately unknown data pouring in at
them through their senses about some external phenomena.

Where the conspiracy theorist believes he/she is uncovering “truth” as they creatively
write new reality models based upon the infinite and ever changing data points of the
internet, the ARG player pieces together somewhat predetermined pieces of information,
eventually becoming conscious of their involvement with this reality they have partially
constructed; and often, as ARG’s have communities of people, these people eventually
begin to cohabit collectively painted mind spaces.

What if you had always been living in a Game, a simulation, trapped unconscious in a
labyrinth of symbols designed by some higher intelligence? What if everything you saw
could potentially be a clue, a piece of some unfolding story; if all appearances masked
some deeper reality, if you but had the keys to unlock its secrets?

There exists, underneath the world you know, another world- a world of magic,
mystery, change and transcendence, where Agents of an Unknown Order battle against
powers which attempt to enslave a sleeping humanity. Would you want to know about it?
Would you take up the call and arm yourself in the battle which has been waged
throughout time and history?

We invite you into a world where nothing is as it seems, where every event in your life,
from your birth, and even before, to the present moment takes on a new significance,
encoding messages that it is your job to uncover.

This Project has been occurring through all time, all space, its agents everywhere,
setting the stage for the Game which will Initiate a planet.

Are you willing to play? What if we told you that you already were, that the reading of
these words is recorded? This is the Game to end all Games.

The Project may appear to be an ARG. It has a storyline to itself, characters, a fictional
world, etc. However, what it really is doing is disguising what is actually occurring as
fiction and presenting it to the cultural media sphere; in that sense, it writes itself into
reality as it is being ‘played’- through the previously mentioned process of apophenia.
As an individual plays an ARG, they become familiar with its storyline, its characters, its
plot development, and they place themselves within its ontological framework. It is
assumed that what they are playing is a Game; however, in the Project, the main
characters that appear to players as fiction are in fact “real” individuals- in that they
embody the reality of the Project in their own being.

This structure is a business, a secret society, a school, and a way of life. It has a network
of resources at its disposal, and its skill faction, or guilds, are divided up according to the
proclivity of its members. These guilds would be utilized to educate and inform incoming
players, as they work their way through the maze of information, all the while operating
under the assumption that they explore a fictional world. The business could hire players
as those players show their innate talents and their True Will becomes more perceptible
and tangible.

The Organization would also be responsible for creative endeavors related to spreading
the Project. Any media could be utilized as a vehicle for the Projects expression; yet
always the media contains the entirety of the Project itself. This is due to the nature of the
medium the project is embedded within- in the digital sphere. All artifacts are extensions
back to the web. What matters is the network that exists within the Net that forms the
living matrix of the Project itself. In this way the Project could be embedded in a story
line, culled from the creative artifacts of Players (generated via apophenia) could be
utilized as scripts for TV shows (or even YouTube videos) or comic books. The storyline
of these shows is about the drama of the Agents of the Project, the creators being the
main characters of the show. Thus the whole Project becomes self-replicating, selfreflexive
and mimetic.

As Players progress, they become more entwined with the Project, with the perception of
the Transcendent Object- the Omega Point- and they become increasingly interconnected
with the whole. As this process accelerates, they become main characters in the story, or
stories fracture. Individuals become centers of their own, expressing the various facets of
the Project in their own lives. Being tied in to the network, they become characters to be
interacted with by new players.

Thus, the Project itself simply connects to its Agents as it grows, and what those Agents
are doing (often referred to as “sleepers”) is simply brought into context of the greater
whole. Sleepers are awakened, many of whom clue into the Project in a relatively short
period of time, and take up their natural position within the Organization with minimal
waste of energy. As the Project relies upon the Law of Synchronicity to guide
individuals into contact with the Project, we know that when a sleeper does make contact,
the situation, circumstances and context of the individual will be absolutely appropriate
to the current evolution of the Project itself, and will be just what is needed.
